README.md, before:

# yzhan-react-responsive-content

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/yzhan-react-responsive-content)
![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/yzhan-react-responsive-content)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/yzhan-react-responsive-content)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mantoufan/yzhanReactResponsiveContent)](https://github.com/mantoufan/yzhanReactResponsiveContent/blob/main/LICENSE)
![ie10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/IE-10-skyblue)

A powerful and flexible React component for creating responsive content with automatic media query generation.  
为响应式内容自动生成媒体查询.

# Demo

![GIF animation](https://s2.loli.net/2024/09/30/8PDlowU1MjFe7gc.gif)  
[Demo Link](https://mantoufan.github.io/yzhanReactResponsiveContent/)

## Features

- **Server-side rendering**: Works out of the box with SSR, no client-side rendering required.
- **Flexible content definition**: Accept a `set` prop similar to `srcSet`, allowing you to define content for different breakpoints easily.
- **Versatile content types**: Supports various content types including strings, HTML tags, React components, null values, and even lists of React nodes.
- **Performance optimized**: Uses pure CSS for control, automatically generating and removing media queries without global CSS pollution.
- **Customizable display property**: Set the display property to match your layout needs (block, flex, grid, inline, inline-block, etc.).
- **SEO-friendly**: Allows web crawlers to index content for both desktop and mobile versions simultaneously.
- **Smart wrapper handling**: Reuses existing wrapper layers when present, avoiding unnecessary DOM nesting and preserving existing style selectors.

## Installation

Install the package using npm:

```bash
npm install yzhan-react-responsive-content
```

Or using yarn:

```bash
yarn add yzhan-react-responsive-content
```

## Usage

Here's a basic example of how to use the `ResponsiveContent` component:

```jsx
import ResponsiveContent from "yzhan-react-responsive-content";

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <ResponsiveContent
      set={[
        ["Mobile Content", 320],
        ["Tablet Content", 768],
        ["Desktop Content"],
      ]}
      display="block"
    />
  );
}
```

In this example:

- Content will display as follows:
  - 'Mobile Content' for screen widths up to 320px
  - 'Tablet Content' for screen widths between 321px and 768px
  - 'Desktop Content' for screen widths above 768px

### Advanced Usage

You can use more complex content types, including React components. When using React components or elements, remember to provide a unique `key` prop to each one:

```jsx
import ResponsiveContent from "yzhan-react-responsive-content";

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <ResponsiveContent
      set={[
        [
          <MobileLayout key="mobile">Mobile specific content</MobileLayout>,
          320,
        ],
        [<TabletLayout key="tablet">Tablet optimized view</TabletLayout>, 768],
        [
          <React.Fragment key="desktop">
            <DesktopHeader />
            <DesktopContent />
            <DesktopFooter />
          </React.Fragment>,
        ],
      ]}
      display="flex"
    />
  );
}
```

Note: When using React components or elements in the `set` prop, always provide a unique `key` prop to each one. This helps React efficiently update and re-render the content.

## API

### Props

- `set: Array<[ReactNode | null, number?]>`: An array of tuples. Each tuple contains the content to display and an optional breakpoint width. When using React components or elements as content, remember to provide a unique `key` prop to each one.
- `display?: 'block' | 'flex' | 'grid' | 'inline' | 'inline-block'`: The CSS display property to use for the content. Defaults to 'block'.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

:memo: why you need it

README.md, after:

# yzhan-react-responsive-content

![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/yzhan-react-responsive-content)
![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/yzhan-react-responsive-content)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/yzhan-react-responsive-content)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mantoufan/yzhanReactResponsiveContent)](https://github.com/mantoufan/yzhanReactResponsiveContent/blob/main/LICENSE)
![ie10+](https://img.shields.io/badge/IE-10-skyblue)

A powerful and flexible React component for creating responsive content with automatic media query generation.  
为响应式内容自动生成媒体查询.

# Why you need it instead of conditional rendering

- SSR / SSG / ISG: Conditional rendering requires device width, unavailable on the server
- SEO: Conditionally rendered content may be missed by crawlers

# Demo

![GIF animation](https://s2.loli.net/2024/09/30/8PDlowU1MjFe7gc.gif)  
[Demo Link](https://mantoufan.github.io/yzhanReactResponsiveContent/)

## Features

- **Server-side rendering**: Works out of the box with SSR, no client-side rendering required.
- **Flexible content definition**: Accept a `set` prop similar to `srcSet`, allowing you to define content for different breakpoints easily.
- **Versatile content types**: Supports various content types including strings, HTML tags, React components, null values, and even lists of React nodes.
- **Performance optimized**: Uses pure CSS for control, automatically generating and removing media queries without global CSS pollution.
- **Customizable display property**: Set the display property to match your layout needs (block, flex, grid, inline, inline-block, etc.).
- **SEO-friendly**: Allows web crawlers to index content for both desktop and mobile versions simultaneously.
- **Smart wrapper handling**: Reuses existing wrapper layers when present, avoiding unnecessary DOM nesting and preserving existing style selectors.

## Installation

Install the package using npm:

```bash
npm install yzhan-react-responsive-content
```

Or using yarn:

```bash
yarn add yzhan-react-responsive-content
```

## Usage

Here's a basic example of how to use the `ResponsiveContent` component:

```jsx
import ResponsiveContent from "yzhan-react-responsive-content";

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <ResponsiveContent
      set={[
        ["Mobile Content", 320],
        ["Tablet Content", 768],
        ["Desktop Content"],
      ]}
      display="block"
    />
  );
}
```

In this example:

- Content will display as follows:
  - 'Mobile Content' for screen widths up to 320px
  - 'Tablet Content' for screen widths between 321px and 768px
  - 'Desktop Content' for screen widths above 768px

### Advanced Usage

You can use more complex content types, including React components. When using React components or elements, remember to provide a unique `key` prop to each one:

```jsx
import ResponsiveContent from "yzhan-react-responsive-content";

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <ResponsiveContent
      set={[
        [
          <MobileLayout key="mobile">Mobile specific content</MobileLayout>,
          320,
        ],
        [<TabletLayout key="tablet">Tablet optimized view</TabletLayout>, 768],
        [
          <React.Fragment key="desktop">
            <DesktopHeader />
            <DesktopContent />
            <DesktopFooter />
          </React.Fragment>,
        ],
      ]}
      display="flex"
    />
  );
}
```

Note: When using React components or elements in the `set` prop, always provide a unique `key` prop to each one. This helps React efficiently update and re-render the content.

## API

### Props

- `set: Array<[ReactNode | null, number?]>`: An array of tuples. Each tuple contains the content to display and an optional breakpoint width. When using React components or elements as content, remember to provide a unique `key` prop to each one.
- `display?: 'block' | 'flex' | 'grid' | 'inline' | 'inline-block'`: The CSS display property to use for the content. Defaults to 'block'.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
